Add simple single-layer snow scheme (#144)
TUM-PIK-ESM/Terrarium.jl: docs/src/processes/snow/snow_energy.md

# Snow energy balance

```@meta
CurrentModule = Terrarium
```

```@setup snowenergy
using Terrarium
using InteractiveUtils
```

!!! warning
    This page is a work in progress. If you have any questions or notice any errors, please [raise an issue](https://github.com/NumericalEarth/Terrarium.jl/issues).

## Overview

> The prognostic snow energy is the depth-integrated (column) internal energy ``U_\text{snow}`` (J/m²). Its tendency is computed as,

Reviewer: For soil, U is volumetric (J/m^3) and not depth-integrated (J/m^2)

Author: Volumetric is problematic for single-layer snow because of the varying thickness. I would just keep it and accept the minor notational inconsistency.

```math
\begin{equation}
\frac{\partial U_\text{snow}}{\partial t} = Q_\text{base} - Q_\text{top} + Q_\text{precip} + Q_\text{subl},

> \end{equation}

Reviewer: The convention of using Q as a heat flux is followed here. This convention is also followed in NumericalEarth (https://numericalearth.github.io/NumericalEarthDocumentation/dev/appendix/notation/#Base-flux-symbols), but was not used as of now in Terrarium documentation (see e.g. surface energy balance documentation). Maybe better to have this consistent?

Reviewer: Do you also want to use the fluxes = positive upward convention here?

Author: Yes.

Author: This is admittedly a bit unintuitive though... maybe we should change the convention to apply only to fluxes that are stored as auxiliary variables and shared between components? But that also feels kind of arbitrary...

Author: Ah actually, in this case, I think the convention doesn't apply to Q_precip since it's nondirectional.

Author: ah and `Q_subl` should be positive here because it's a correction for `Q_top` which already removed the full sublimation flux. So it's correct as is.

```
where ``Q_\text{top}`` is the net surface heat flux (the surface energy balance closure flux over the
snow), ``Q_\text{base}`` is the conductive heat flux at the snow base, ``Q_\text{precip}`` is the
sensible/latent heat advected by precipitation (see [Snow mass balance](@ref)), and ``Q_\text{subl}`` is
an advective correction for energy loss due to sublimation. Meltwater drains as liquid water at 0 °C, which is the zero-enthalpy reference of the enthalpy closure below, so it carries no enthalpy out of the snowpack and no
explicit meltwater energy term appears.

> The sublimation correction arises from the same enthalpy reference.``Q_\text{top}`` includes the surface latent heat flux which reduces the energy content of the snowpack by ``\rho_w L_s E_\text{subl}``, but the the mass leaving the snowpack departs as ice, whose specific enthalpy relative to liquid water at 0 °C is ``-L_f``. Adding back ``Q_\text{subl} = \rho_w L_f E_\text{subl}`` leaves a net pack loss of ``\rho_w L_v E_\text{subl}`` since ``L_s = L_f + L_v`` by definition.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The sublimation correction arises from the same enthalpy reference. ``Q_\text{top}`` includes the surface latent heat flux which reduces the energy content of the snowpack by ``\rho_w L_{sg} E_\text{subl}``, but the the mass leaving the snowpack departs as ice, whose specific enthalpy relative to liquid water at 0 °C is ``-L_{sl}``. Adding back ``Q_\text{subl} = \rho_w L_{sg} E_\text{subl}`` leaves a net pack loss of ``\rho_w L_{lv} E_\text{subl}`` since ``L_{sg} = L_{sl} + L_{lv}`` by definition.
```

Reviewer: Suggestion updates notation of latent heat to be consistent with https://numericalearth.github.io/Terrarium.jl/dev/processes/utils/physical_constants/#Thermodynamic-constants

## Energy–temperature closure

> The bulk snowpack is treated as an ice-water-air mixture, and its temperature and liquid water fraction are recovered from the depth-integrated internal energy using the same medium-agnostic [`FreeWater`](@extref FreezeCurves.FreeWater) enthalpy relations used for the soil (see [Soil energy balance](@ref)). The volumetric energy ``U_v = E / d_s`` is computed from the snow depth ``d_s`` (see [`volumetric_snow_energy`](@ref)) without allocating an auxiliary field. The `FreeWater` map references the internal energy to liquid water at 0 °C (``U = 0``), so the phase-change band is ``U_v \in [-L\theta, 0]`` with ice at 0 °C at ``-L\theta``. Because snow temperature cannot exceed 0 °C, the recovered free-water temperature is clipped at zero.

Reviewer: Contradictory compared to earlier in this document: U now back to being volumetric. I would keep this and drop the _v

Reviewer: I would also propose that a consistent abbrevation for snow needs to be chosen. _s does not seem ideal, as it can be confused with surface. Better canditates are sn, snow or i (to denote ice as done in NumericalEarth: https://numericalearth.github.io/NumericalEarthDocumentation/dev/appendix/notation/#Superscript-labels)

Reviewer: What does theta mean in this content? I suppose liquid water fraction in snow? Or is it total liquid water equivalent content?  Would be better to redefine as definitions from soil stratigraphy cannot be copied exactly.

Author: Fixed in 1492f413f
